### Lifecycle Overview

Handling of all request starts in `public/index.php` where an application instance is created and `Request` - `Response` cycle begins.

That is a high level overview

```
Configure Container      -> Request  -> Global Middleware -> Route Middleware >-----
                                                                                    |
                                                                               Controller (create Response)
                                                                                    |
Send Response to Browser <- Response <- Global Middleware <- Route Middleware <------
```

#### Container Configurators

Based on the requested [URL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL) and [method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol#Request_methods) the application determines [Container][1] configurators to be executed. It includes configurators from framework, application and 3rd party components. Application container configurators could be assigned to specific HTTP routes so they will be executed only for them. Using this feature you can optimize application and create heavy Container services only for routes where they are actually used.

#### Request

For both `Request` and `Response` Limoncello works with [PSR-7][2] HTTP message interfaces. There is a default `Request` factory that creates requests for the application however you can have a custom `Request` factories. Custom `Requests` might have additional functionality such as input data validation or logging. Custom `Requests` and factories could be assigned to routes or route groups. Thus it is possible to have different `Requests` for traditional form-based pages and APIs in the same application.

#### Middleware

`Middleware` is a software layer that works with `Requests` before they are handled `Controllers` and with `Responses` on the way from `Controllers` back to user. Middleware if necessary may modify `Requests` and `Responses` and typically used for authentication, authorization, cookie and session management, logging, and etc.

Limoncello has two types of `Middleware` global and route specific. Global `Middleware` is executed for every received `Request` even if there is no corresponding route for that. Route `Middleware` is executed when there is a matching route / `Controller`.

#### Summary

Limoncello framework provides great flexibility for every step in `Request` - `Response` lifecycle: `Container` configuration, `Request` creation, `Midlleware` layers. This makes it possible to have very thin and fast `Request` handling and more heavier ones even in the same application.

[1]: 02.Container.md
[2]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-7/
