### Settings

Settings are used to configure your application or components that your application is using. By default the settings are located in `settings` folder.

#### Settings Modification

Apart from the very obvious case when you need to modify a settings file which is already located in the settings folder there is a question 'How to modify 3rd party settings?'. All you need to do is to create a class that extends the 3rd party settings class and modify values returned by `get` method. Depending on the specific implementation it could done via overriding specific methods or `get` method itself. The framework is smart enough to understand that when a parent settings class is requested the new class should be returned instead.

For example, if we want to enable logging in a 3rd party component the settings could be changed as below

```php
class SomeService extends SomeServiceSettings
{
    public function get(): array
    {
        $settings = parent::get();

        $settings[static::KEY_LOG_IS_ENABLED] = false;

        return $settings;
    }
}
```

> Note: In some cases method `get` might be declared as `final` and an other method such as `getSettings` should be used.

#### Reading Settings

Settings could be read from any part of the application with the following code snippet

```php
    /** @var \Psr\Container\ContainerInterface $container */
    $container = ...;

    /** @var \Limoncello\Contracts\Settings\SettingsProviderInterface $provider */
    $provider = $container->get(SettingsProviderInterface::class);
    
    /** @var array $settings */
    // any class that extends SomeServiceSettings would work as well
    $settings = $provider->get(SomeServiceSettings::class); 
```

#### Custom Settings

Custom settings could be created with a class implementing `SettingsInterface` placed in `settings` folder. It would be automatically read and made available from `SettingsProviderInterface`.

```php
class CustomService implements SettingsInterface
{
    public function get(): array
    {
        return [
            // key => value
        ];
    }
}
```

The array from `get` method should return only exportable types such as numbers, strings, booleans, and arrays including nested arrays. Some classes such as `DateTime` are also supported. See [here](http://php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.magic.php#object.set-state) for how to make a class exportable.
